Basic Details

Title: Defunct Vessel
Genre(s): Sci-fi, LitRPG, System, Male Lead
Tone/Style: Space opera/bureaucratic absurdism
Target Audience: 19-25
Length Preference: Slow burn

Setting

Primary Location: The Divide quadrant, in the Dravith Halo galaxy
Era/Timeframe: Far future, FTL travel
Magic System: Body modification-based technology/Intel-based scanning UI interface

Plot

Arc 01
Premise: After saving up for years to buy a space ship, Axel realizes that he has been scammed and that he took an offer that was too good to be true. Left with a defunct vessel (a ship that is no longer legal), he must stick to the outskirts of systems and navigate wartorn areas of the galaxy to make a profit and secure his life as a space trader.
Inciting Incident: Hours after the tranaction, Axel notices signs of being followed and boards his ship to escape. A violent intergration with the ship's systems activates his UI system, courtesy of the Avalon Foundation, giving him access to his system UI.
Climax: The system enhances Axel's mental capabilities, allowing him to use obtained skills to perform high level guesses and escape the Imperial pursuers without needing to use the ship's weaponry as he is only able to half-assedly navigate space as a one man crew.
Resolution: Axel's ship, the Contain Frontier is considerably damaged. He uses another of his obtained skills to chart an effective course toward one of the outskirt systems as a last ditch gamble. 

Arc 02
Premise: Axel makes it to the outskirt planet. His UI system giving him general stats about the planet, such as it having a low Law rating and a high Engineering rating, allowing him to easily repair his ship but over a long period. Meanwhile he tried to recruit a viable crew.
Inciting Incident: In the spice hall, a bar of sorts where people network and consume a mentally enhancing material called Spice, a commotion happens where a group of Iosin people get into a brawl with a Disosik group. Alex watches the commotion and tries to use his system to scout talented individuals. As the brawl takes a while and crowd sheers the Disosik group is defeated, but Axel is done with his analysis and concludes that he could recruit some of them as they have remarkable spacefaring skills. Furthermore, his skills allowed him to deduct their motivations and he performs a perfect and witty introduction, bringing the 6 on his crew, each of them relegating to a specific role within the ship's operations (Navigator, Mechanical Engineer, Gunner, Systems Engineer, Doctor, Crewdog) leaving Axel to properly take ship captain duties.
Climax: They renovate the ship over some time, going through multiple trips and doing multiple missions on the planet, as resources are scarce. As they prepare to leave, the Iosin group returns with a weapons to settle their differences through blood. Axel mostly guides the crew, as they have more experience in combat than him, but all things considered he proves rather critical in their victory.
Resolution: Axel gains the crew's respect but they keep it secret from him. On the other hand, Axel has made his preparations in case his analysis was incorrect and they mounted a mutiny against him. Through deduction and reasoning he realizes that none of his crew members has the same system UI as him, and that only him is capable of seeing it. He gets to know the crew and many interactions happen between them, including drills and exchange of rumors. They chart along the outskirt planets of the quadrant, making trades, meeting new contacts, getting involved in conflicts and doing missions.

Arc 03
Premise: The crew is expanded with 8 more members, doing general and specialized roles. The Contain Frontier and its crew become slightly know as a get-the-job-done group capable of doing missions without fail. Somewhere in the Imperial royal capital, the Contain Frontier is discussed with concerned faces over multiple officials, but a sharp and handsome looking man dismisses the concerns saying that it is all within his plan. That man is the 4th prince of the Empirial Unification Systems nation, and unbeknownst to his underlings he is one of the people who have a system UI granting him supreme abilities.
Climax: Axel and his crew undertake more missions drawing them closer to the empire. Axel realizes this and tries to change their path but to no avail, he deducts that they are being pulled to the greater conflict between the Empirial Unification Systems and Nation of the Free Spacer. This is where betrayals, insane ability revelations and intricate clever schemes are displayed in the story. Axel has to take the empire's side intitally but through clever trickery he manages to flit between factions, making the most profit without pissing one side too much. Many characters are introduced, some capable of using the system and others powerful through their own merits, and each conflict ends in either ship combat or close melee and gun based combat. The prince is aware of Axel's actions and suddenly appears inside his one of his dreams, offering him an ultimatum: Either they join hands or their fates run parallel destroying both of them. Axel tries to shoot him in the dream, causing him to wake up.
Resolution: The last chapter ends with the Contain Frontier heading toward some destination, with heavily armed ships lining their path, standing still and observing their every move. The final revelation is that Axel was heading directly to the prince's fief planet.

Themes & Symbols

Core Themes: Emphasis on cleverness and technique, all the strong characters have high levels of both. 
Recurring Symbols/Motifs: The wish for freedom and the loathing of being controlled and watched.

Main Characters
Axel Volt, ship captain

Writing Preferences

Narrative Style: Third person, Omniscient
Tense: Past
Pacing Preference: Slow
Special Requests: Descriptive, internally and physically. Each fight should employ much cleverness and hidden traps.

Extras

Inspiration Sources: Maruyama's Overlord
Specific Scenes You Want Included: In the 3rd arc, there should be many encounters with empire officials and ship masters, all of which have some incredible skills unique to their tech or their usage of the system. The battles must be thrilling and a joy to read.